- This is the Galaxy Z Flip,
whereas I'll be calling it Z Flip.
Has anybody else done that yet?
- Z Flip.
- Everyone has already done that, I dunno.
I didn't watch anyone else's videos
'cause I didn't wanna color my impressions
of the second foldable phone
from Samsung or is it the third?
Do we count the one that they recalled?
So I'm getting it late.
The reason is that
Samsung didn't send me one
and I had to wait for retail availability,
but that doesn't change
how excited I am about this device.
As you guys might remember,
I was a huge fan of the Galaxy Fold
and the flip is just,
well kind of an extension
of the same concept.
So the idea is that you've
got a device that takes up
very little space when it's folded up
and then expands into
something much larger.
Oh wait, that's interesting.
I just unfolded it
and it actually has a
bit of a curve to it.
You know, I thought that
that might be just a problem
with my Galaxy Fold.
So it doesn't fold all the way,
but it might just be to do
with Samsung's hinge design.
Can you tell on camera
that it's an open a little bit too far,
man, that bugs me way more
than it probably should.
All right, let's go, indeed
ladies and gentlemen.
Really?
Apple finally did away with this
and now Samsung forces
you to insert a SIM card
in order to set up the
phone the first time.
No micro SD expansion,
so we've just got a SIM
slot here, all right.
Let's restart this thing, I mean,
I guess this is better than
what Samsung used to do
where when you put in your SIM card,
it would reset the phone
that you had already set up.
That was really cute.
Well, let's take a look at this thing.
So it's got a USB type C port,
it's got wireless charging
on the right-hand side.
They've got a side mounted
fingerprint sensor,
as well as a volume rocker up here.
No IP rating of any sort on this thing,
which kind of makes sense,
it'd be really difficult to
keep water out of the hinge.
Dual 12 megapixel rear camera,
so this is not gonna
be a photography beast.
And this is cool.
So this is a small external display
that'll tell you, you know,
a notification that's coming in
or whatever the case may be,
and that'll allow you
to flip open the phone
and carry on where you left off.
While we wait for this to boot up though,
let's try the actual flipness of it.
I was one of those people
who's been using a cell phone long enough
to have actually had a flip phone.
And like half the reason you
get one is for the satisfaction
of being like, yeah,
what's up, you know, hey,
I'm just gonna talk on my
phone and then closing it up.
And I will say the sound isn't great.
And the extra width actually makes it
a little bit uncomfortable to do that.
You know what?
I'll give it a B.
I wish it had a more
satisfying sound on the close.
It slows down a little bit
as it approaches fully opening up.
And part of that might be because
they've designed it to be
configurable in multiple spots.
So that snap only happens
from about here on, right?
Other than that, you can kind
of stick it wherever you want.
It's a really cool design.
I think it's still booting up.
So there have already been some
durability tests determining
just how glass likes
Samsung's flexible glasses,
but can you see that?
What the hell?
And I wasn't even poking
at it super hard though.
What made me notice it
was that I had just like
touched it or something
and I put it down
and the reflection of
the studio lights here
made it really obvious that there's like
some give to it.
And then it's kind of like
memory foam bouncing back up.
Oh, it's super soft.
All right, are we ready
to set this thing up?
Nice, this is a very tall display.
And I don't know if part
of why it seems so tall
is because the hinges are on the side.
It does, doesn't it?
This is a really expensive phone that
other than the foldness and the hinge
doesn't feel that futuristic
like when you're actually using it.
Like, do you guys think
I'm being unfair so far?
Okay, 'cause I'm not trying to be unfair.
Okay though, you know what?
Holding these two phones in my hand
while I was copying an
authentication key over,
the narrowness actually feels pretty good.
Like it's more similar to the
old candy bar style phones
than I initially realized.
Maybe I missed that a
little bit, you know?
Oh, okay, I was gonna say
reaching across as quite easy,
but then with how tall it is
like with how top heavy it is,
it's easy for it to fall out of your hand.
Don't worry I got a dbrand skin on there
for those incidental
scars and scrapes, right?
Wow, that is really high up to reach to
go to like the URL bar.
I can't think of anything I've ever used
where I got to reach up,
I have to shift my hands
so much to reach that.
One of the initial criticisms
I heard of this thing is that
scrolling over the hinge is
really weird and uncomfortable.
My take so far is
I wouldn't normally be
scrolling up that high,
at least with the size
of hands that I have.
I wouldn't really go any higher than here.
And I don't know if you can see this,
but the hinge is right around here.
This does feel weird in other ways though,
like mobile internet
was designed with 16 by
nine devices in mind.
And then we started getting
these slightly wider ones.
Just one result, just one
Wikipedia article takes up.
What is that?
That is over a third of my display.
One of the pictures on Samsung site
is like multitasking on this thing.
I can't even see this entire post
because it contains some text
and it's a retweet that
also had some texts on it.
Like that is not a usable experience.
I go on the product page for this,
and it's like, yeah,
massive 6.7 inch display,
it's like, you realize
you're the same company
that just launched the S20
Ultra at the same event.
And it's a bit of a
hack in the first place
because measuring your screen diagonally
instead of by the total screen
area is sort of cheating.
I mean, this is still really cool,
and I'm never gonna get over this.
Yeah, yeah, cool, right?.
- [David] It's scrolling, wow.
- Well, yeah, but it's
scrolling around the bend.
Look, I'm scrolling this way
and they image is going that way.
What, what.
How much is this thing costs?
Like $1500, something like that.
You know what?
Let's look up how much this thing costs.
I actually don't know.
No, okay, no, that's just like
a horrible Canadian pricing.
Okay, so it's 1,380.
So it's a little less than 1,500 US.
If nothing else, I'll
say this about the price.
Samsung's got a lot of guts
asking more than iPhone pricing
for something that doesn't even have
top tier Android phone specs.
So it Snapdragon 855 rather than 865,
is got 8GB of RAM, 256GB of storage,
just a 3300 mAh power battery.
So you're gonna be using this for one day
and one day only between charges.
And then probably the
biggest problem for me
is the dual 12 megapixel cameras.
Like on the one hand you're telling me
this is a phone for people
who are really image obsessed,
because why else would
it be important to you
to whip out a foldable phone be like, yes,
this is a hinge on the back of my phone,
but I don't care about
having a good camera.
I mean, I shouldn't say it's not good
without actually trying it.
So let's go, we've got our
double tap to open the camera
and hey Andy, how you doing?
Yeah, what does this, what is this?
We got two guys doing the work
and then two of them to watch.
Wow, it's got this white balance way off,
you notice that?
Stay within three feet of the subject.
These live bulkhead
effects are still so bad.
I gave it the best possible
case scenario, a box.
And it still manages to have
this part of the table in focus
for no apparent reason
and manages to blur this line.
Like, what is this?
This is one of their pitches.
Whether it's for video calling
or for just like taking selfies,
is being able to put your
phone in front of you like this
and just be like, oh, look at that.
That would be pretty
cool for video calling.
The one problem I had is
they've also got shots on their site
of people holding it like
this for video calling
that is not ergonomic at all.
This is way better,
that was smooth though.
That animation going from folded mode
to full screen mode, me like it.
Maybe we can get rid of some
of that beauty smoothing.
I don't need no more beauty.
I am beautiful enough
without the beauty smoothing.
Thank you, sir.
Let's give it another
chance without any filters.
Look at how much fun am having,
that's what you're supposed
to do for a selfie, right?
Yeah, that's not great.
It's not terrible, it's like fine.
Look how much keyboard this is.
And it's so narrow,
my thumbs are almost too close sometimes
it's the opposite problem
you have compared to
when you're like typing
on a tablet or something.
Wow, and when you're watching
video vertically, I mean,
I guess if you're super
into the YouTube comments,
I confess I am the kind of person
who will occasionally watch
a video in vertical mode,
just because it's a
little bit more ergonomic.
That is so little video on the screen.
I mean, this is good though.
Lots and lots of YouTube comments to read.
So this is 22 by nine which actually is
very, very close to the
standard cinema aspect ratio.
So that's why it was really hard for me
to tell if it was cutting
anything off the top,
it might be, but it
would be ever so slightly
as long as you can get
over the whole punch,
which I think for something this wide
is much easier to forgive,
that's pretty great.
(upbeat music)
No way,
Okay, that is disappointing.
The wide aspect ratio screen
was giving me an argument
for watching movies on
the go on this thing
until I realized that's
not an amplified ear piece.
So it's mono audio just from
the bottom firing speaker
on this side here.
There's no question that
the cool factor is there.
My problem is that with the fold,
I had this compelling argument to make,
if you needed a bigger screen,
but only had a pocket to keep it in,
this was your solution.
So it was kind of like
the laptop that way,
it took a computer and
put it in your backpack.
And then the fold took a tablet
and it put it in your pocket.
Well, this takes a phone
and puts it in your pocket,
but just instead of being long and thin,
its shorter and thicker.
This is a last gen device, is a Note9,
so it's actually very
similar in terms of spec,
but I am getting more screen for my dollar
and actually more features
things like the S pen.
Let me know in the comments,
if you want it to get
the full LTT experience.
But for now I think the
flip is just one of those
milestones along the way,
two devices that make a lot
more sense than it does.
Thanks for watching this
episode of Short Circuit,
make sure you are subscribed.
This is a different
channel in Linus Tech Tips.
So you have to subscribe to it separately.
It's hard, I know, but you can do it.
It's like just move that mouse hand,
get that sheet dust out of the way, click,
you got this.
By the way, I just wanna shout out dbrand
they didn't sponsor the video or anything
but they did get us the device
with our LTT orange
and black colors on it.
I don't know if they knew
we were not gonna do a video
on the LTT channel with it, but
it was good effort you guys,
thank you, you can check
them out at dbrand.com below